Address comments from AD (#93)
ietf-wg-jose/draft-ietf-jose-hpke-encrypt: draft-ietf-jose-hpke-encrypt.md

The HPKE KEM, KDF, and AEAD values are chosen from the IANA HPKE registry {{IANA.HPKE}}.

Note that HPKE-7 pairs DHKEM(P-256, HKDF-SHA256) with AES-256-GCM.
While the security strengths of these components are not matched,
this combination is valid per {{I-D.ietf-hpke-hpke}}, which allows
any combination of KEM, KDF, and AEAD. This combination was
included to support existing deployments already using this

> algorithm suite.

Reviewer: Drop the HPKE-7 explanatory note entirely (Deb's remaining-question 3).

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Done in **-20** (posted 2026-06-15): the HPKE-7 explanatory note has been removed from §5.1.

The HPKE KEM, KDF, and AEAD values are chosen from the IANA HPKE registry {{IANA.HPKE}}.

Note that HPKE-7-KE pairs DHKEM(P-256, HKDF-SHA256) with AES-256-GCM.
While the security strengths of these components are not matched,
this combination is valid per {{I-D.ietf-hpke-hpke}}, which allows
any combination of KEM, KDF, and AEAD. This combination was
included to support existing deployments already using this
algorithm suite.

> 

Reviewer: Drop the HPKE-7-KE explanatory note entirely (Deb's remaining-question 3).

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Done in **-20**: the HPKE-7-KE explanatory note has been removed from §6.2.

1.  Compute the encoded key value BASE64URL(JWE Encrypted Key).

1.  If the JWE JSON Serialization is being used, and the Key

>     Management Mode supports multiple recipients, repeat this process

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  If the JWE JSON Serialization is being used, and
    there are multiple recipients, repeat this process
```

Even when the key management mode supports multiple recipients, the process won't be repeated if there is only one recipient.

1.  If Integrated Encryption is not being employed,
    record whether the CEK could be successfully determined for this recipient or not.

1.  If the JWE JSON Serialization is being used and the Key

>     Management Mode supports multiple recipients, repeat this process

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  If the JWE JSON Serialization is being used and
    there are multiple recipients, repeat this process
```

Even when the key management mode supports multiple recipients, the process won't be repeated if there is only one recipient.

HPKE JOSE makes the same assumptions. Hence, some form of public key distribution
mechanism is assumed to exist but outside the scope of this document.

HPKE in Base mode does not offer sender authentication (i.e.,
proof of sender origin) as part of the HPKE KEM. The PSK mode
provides sender authentication for recipients that possess the

> pre-shared key, as described in {{Section 9.1 of I-D.ietf-hpke-hpke}}.

Reviewer: Per Deb's remaining-question 6: switch to 'proof of sender origin' (her preferred phrasing) and describe PSK's actual guarantee — recipients learn the sender holds the PSK, not which holder.

```suggestion
HPKE in Base mode does not provide proof of sender origin
as part of the HPKE KEM. PSK mode authenticates the sender
as a holder of the pre-shared key (see {{Section 9.1 of
I-D.ietf-hpke-hpke}}).
```

Reviewer: I don't really like "authenticates the sender as a holder of the pre-shared key"...

Reviewer: Posted a revised suggestion (review 4215462508) using "symmetric-key authentication" instead

Reviewer: Partially resolved in **-20**: adopted "proof of sender origin" for Base mode, per the preferred phrasing. Note the PSK-mode sentence still reads "authenticates the sender as a holder of the pre-shared key" — the "symmetric-key authentication based on a pre-shared secret" rewording from review 4215462508 was not applied. Flagging in case we still want to land that refinement.

> pre-shared key, as described in {{Section 9.1 of I-D.ietf-hpke-hpke}}.

Reviewer: Revised framing — uses standard crypto terminology (symmetric-key authentication) rather than the awkward 'holder of the pre-shared key' phrasing.

```suggestion
HPKE in Base mode does not provide proof of sender origin
as part of the HPKE KEM. PSK mode provides only
symmetric-key authentication based on a pre-shared secret
(see {{Section 9.1 of I-D.ietf-hpke-hpke}}).
```

This separation prevents unintended interactions or vulnerabilities between algorithms,
ensuring the integrity and security guarantees of each algorithm are preserved.
Additionally, the same key SHOULD NOT be used for both
Key Encryption and Integrated Encryption.
While HPKE remains secure across parallel modes
(see {{Section 9.2.2 of I-D.ietf-hpke-hpke}}),
wrapping the same content encryption key under a weaker
alternative key agreement algorithm bound to the shared key
reduces the effective security of the protected content to that

> weakest alternative — a false sense of security.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
weakest alternative.
```

The editorializing about a false sense of security doesn't add anything to the specification.

SHOULD be managed independently.
This separation prevents unintended interactions or vulnerabilities between algorithms,
ensuring the integrity and security guarantees of each algorithm are preserved.
Additionally, the same key MUST NOT be used for both
Key Encryption and Integrated Encryption, as it may introduce security risks.

> It creates algorithm confusion, increases the potential for key leakage, cross-suite attacks, and improper handling of the key.

Reviewer: Per Deb's remaining-question 5 (SHOULD NOT vs MUST NOT in §10.1): revert to SHOULD NOT and replace the algorithm-confusion/key-leakage list with a concrete operational rationale. HPKE §9.2.2 confirms parallel-mode use is safe at the protocol level; the residual risk that justifies SHOULD NOT is a CEK also being wrapped under a weaker alternative bound to the same key, which caps effective security at that weaker alternative.

```suggestion
Additionally, the same key SHOULD NOT be used for both
Key Encryption and Integrated Encryption.
While HPKE remains secure across parallel modes
(see {{Section 9.2.2 of I-D.ietf-hpke-hpke}}),
wrapping the same content encryption key under a weaker
alternative key agreement algorithm bound to the shared key
reduces the effective security of the protected content to that
weakest alternative — a false sense of security.
```

Reviewer: Resolved in **-20** (posted 2026-06-15): the MUST NOT has been reverted. The Key Management section now states that parallel use of the same KEM key pair across modes/suites is "NOT RECOMMENDED", and that "the same key SHOULD NOT be used with both HPKE and non-HPKE algorithms". HPKE §9.2.2 is now cited inline for the key-schedule rationale, per Deb's point.
